CSE 111 Proposal for a Student Chosen Program

    (This is a proposal. All proposals are written with our best
    knowledge at the beginning of a project. As we progress from the
    beginning to the end of a project, we gain more knowledge, and we
    change some of our proposed ideas. This is part of completing any
    project and is fine.  However, we still must write a proposal so
    that our teachers or supervisors know what we intend to do. Please
    answer each of the following questions to the best of your
    knowledge.)


1. What is the title of your program?
    Student Expense Tracker


2. What real-world problem will your program address or help to solve?  
    Many students have difficulty keeping track of their daily expenses 
    and understanding how much money they spend over time. This program 
    will help students record, store, and review their expenses so they
    can manage their finances more effectively and make better budgetting 
    decisions.


3. What will you learn from developing this program?
    I will learn how to design a well-organized Python Program using 
    multiple functions, work with files to store and retrieve data, and 
    apply good testing practices using pytest. I will also improve my 
    problem-solving skills by breaking a real-world problem into smaller, 
    manageable tasks.


4. What Python modules will your program use?
    • datetime - to record and manage expense dates
    • csv - or built-in file handling - to store and read expense data
    • pytest - to test program functions

    (Some examples are: csv, datetime, functools, matplotlib, math,
    pandas, pytest, random, requests, and tkinter.)


5. List the names of functions you will need?
    • load_expenses(filename) - reads expenses from a file and returns them
    • save_expenses(filename, expenses) - writes expenses to a file
    • add_expense(expenses, ampount, category, description, date) - adds a new expense
    • calaculate_total(expenses) - returns the total amount spent
    • calculate_total_by_category(expenses, category) - returns total for a category
    • get_user_menu_choice() - gets the user's menu selection
    • display_expenses(expenses) - displays expenses to the user
    • main() - controls the overall program flow

    (Remember that the most reusable functions don't get user input and
    don't print results but instead have parameters and return a result.
    Functions that get user input and print results are important and do
    useful work but are not easily reusable.)

    (Remember also that it's hard to test functions that get user input
    and print results. It's easy to test functions that don't get user
    input and don't print results but instead have parameters and return
    a result. Therefore, you should write most of your program functions
    to have parameters and return a result.)

6. List the names of the test functions you will write.
    • test_calculate_total()
    • test_calculate_total_by_category()
    • test_add_expense()


